---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Widget concept

Everything is a widgets. Each widget is defined by its kind, a unique string that points to a js module. For example https://github.com/drumee/ui-team/blob/modulify/src/drumee/seeds.js
Widgets with attribute **kids** can nest children widgets defined as array and so on. It's based on Backbone and Backbone.Marionette framework.

Core whidgets are defined here https://github.com/drumee/ui-core/blob/main/letc/kind/seeds/static.js

To make developers life easier, there are base toolkit with documentation here https://drumee.github.io/api-reference/frontend-sdk/
The most important are Skeletons.Box
Skeletons.Box.X : container that flows horizontally
Skeletons.Box.Y : container that flows vertically
Skeletons.Box.G :  container that using grid template
Widgets are automaticakkty created with some automatic behavior : state, radio, radiotoggle, etc.
Widgets are automaticakkty created with some property : this.fig that can be uased as tags to structure css class

Base widgets can be assemblied to create a bigger with more features and so on. It's also easy ot embed external JS module as a new widget to be reused everywhere.

#### The skeleton concept
Instead of using template with HTML/CSS elements, Drumee use pure JSON tree data to describe the User Interface. Below block is an example of Drumee Skeleton. 

To make the code more concise, readable and reusable, JSON data is generated by Drumee SDK like the ones below.

As the application UI start rendering, the JSON tree is parse to find every node containing an attribute name **kind**, which is a pointer to a widget, whether is a builtin or a custom one.

So, each widget comes to live with its own skeleton, which a tree of other widgets, and so on. Being simple JSON data, the Skeleton can change at will. That's the magics!

The function from the widget **this.feed(require('./skeleton')(this))** will load below structure into the User Interface Widget. [Check full implentation here.](https://github.com/somanos/perdrix-ui/blob/main/src/manager/widget/work/form/skeleton/index.js)

```
Skeletons.Box.Y({
    className: `${pfx}__main ${ui.fig.family}__main`,
    kids: [
      headerBox(ui, { title: "Create new work" }),
      customerHeader(ui),
      Skeletons.Box.Y({
        className: `${pfx}__container ${ui.fig.group}__container`,
        kids: [
          body,
        actionButtons(ui, [
        { content: "Add construction site", service: "add-site" },
        { content: "Create quotation", service: "create-quote" },
      ])
          dialogWrapper(ui)
        ]
      })
    ]
  });

```
#### The FIG concept
One of developers headaches are CSS styles conflicts. Often complex workarounds are required to avoid CSS pollution between diffent elements of a Web Application. Drumee introduced the FIG concept. 

This stnds for Family, Item and Group. As we have seen, each Drumee widget is defined by its kind, which unique in the application namespace. Drumee breaks that key word into two parts, between the character **_**. The first part is the group, the last is the item, the entire word is the family. 

For example, the widget with kind form_work, shall have:

- group = form
- item  = work
- family = work_form
By writing skeletons thw way below, we can reuse style common to the group while being capable of applying unique style to the widget family.

className: `${pfx}__main ${ui.fig.family}__main`,
className: `${pfx}__container ${ui.fig.group}__container`,

#### The events handler.
When a widget is declared with an attribute **service** and **uiHandler**, upon user action, it will trigger the method **onUiEvent** within the parent widget that has declared itself as the UI handler of the child widget.

In this example, the service "**add-site**" shall load another widget (movable window) through the function **promptSite**, which has been designed to post the form to the server.

```
  createSite(cmd) {
    let args = this.getData();
    /** Check sanity… */
    
    if (insane) return;
    this.postService("perdrix.site_create", { args }).then((data) => {
      this.__content.feed(acknowledge(this, {
        message: `Le chantier a bien ete cree`,
        service: "site-created"
      }));
      this.mset(data)
    }).catch((e) => {
      this.__wrapperDialog.feed(acknowledge(this, {
        message: LOCALE.ERROR_SERVER,
        failed: 1,
        service: 'close-dialog',
      }))
    })
  }
```
#### The parts handler.
One of another developers headache is accessing within a DOM tree. Using *document.getElement* returns only DOM element, not the whole widget with all data, APIs and states. 

That why, Drumee introduced the **part concept**, This consists of naming a sub-widget by a name that can be used to retrieve the sub-widget within the parent widget. Part namespace is scoped. That means that part names are unique within the same parent specified by partHandler. This avoid conflicts between widgets using same part name. 
